From hanselminutes.com and it's Hansel
minutes, our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 95. Recorded
live Thursday, October 24th, 2013. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by Tellerik offering
the best in developer tools
and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details@gesturepak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with John Sheehan from
Runscope about rest Jason and
web services. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I'm talking to John, she
hands CEO of Runscope. How's
it going, sir? It is
going great. How are you?
Very good. Very good. I
was at a hackathon recently
over in New York and we
were doing a bunch of
restful web service stuff, and
I think we were talking
to Azure web services and
it was really interesting to
see kind of the state
of web service APIs, because
the hackathon was sponsored by
a bunch of different API
providers, which is the first
time I'd been to one
where it was like that.
And it was like, if
you use this API in
our hackathon, you'll you could
win this prize. And you
know, so people would end
up using the API, even
though it didn't make any
sense to their product, just
to optimize for winning the
gift. At the end of
the thing. And the state
of API APIs was really
dodgy. I mean, some of
them were like, like the
barrier to entry. Like this
is a thing from my
perspective, if I've got an
API and I want people
to use it from at
least from a demo perspective,
let me use curl or
let me use a browser
and get some data immediately.
So I feel like I've
achieved something, but we had
one API that required a
whole OAuth handshake just to
get hello world working. If
you seen that happening in
the third party API space,
I mean, this is really
common. So one of the
things that I spent a
couple of years working at
Twilio, if people are unfamiliar,
and one of the things
that we really, really harped
on was that somebody should
be able to get up
and running and send their
first text message within five
minutes of hitting the website,
right? Like you should have
a cut and paste example.
That's should be the first
thing that you run into
on the website is something
that you can just drop
in Ron and prove to
you that it works, right.
It doesn't have to do
anything specific. All it needs
to do is within five
minutes, prove that you can
put your keys in the
right place and that you
can get an SMS generate
within a first couple of
minutes. Yeah, I think that's
something that really made Twilio.
What it is is that
sort of attention to that
first run experience. Now, there
are far more API providers
out there and infrastructure API
providers out there. And I
don't think a lot of
them have put in the
effort, the same amount of
effort on getting, helping people
get up and running as
quickly as like Twilio and
Stripe and SendGrid. And some
of these, you know, better
ones are. So, you know,
that, that whole hackathon model,
that was actually one of
the places where we would
take our product and try
to see how fast can
people get started. And if
they couldn't get started quickly,
then we knew we had
to, you know, areas to
improve on. Yeah, I think
that's definitely the thing that
you want to optimize for
people got really frustrated and
only one of the hundred
people in the room at
this hackathon achieved anything with
the OAuth one, because not
only they, they felt like
they had to go and
learn OAuth and trying to
get that to work like
at the curl command line
level was just so frustrating,
but they desperately needed it.
I think it was like
recipe data. It was food,
nutrition data. It was something
that we, our app won't
work without this data. Right.
And like stuff like even
mapping API, some of them
required so much yak shaving
just to get hello world
working, that it was so
discouraging for the average newbie.
Yeah. And you'll see, smart
API providers do something like
automatically generate you in OAuth
key for your account when
you sign up. Right. So
like Twitter actually was the
first one that I saw
do this with OAuth. One
is when you went into
the Twitter dev console, after
you created an application, it
would generate a set of
keys for you, for you,
your personal account to be
already authorized and against that
application. Well, now all their
examples can just drop those
keys in and you're up
and running and they don't
have to tell you, you
don't have to worry about
the auth flow. You can
defer that until later when
you actually need a third
party or another user to
come along. But again, not
a lot of API providers
are doing this, get hub.
Does it a couple other
really good ones do it?
We actually wrote a tool
because of this, because we
were trying to work with
APIs that didn't auto-generate keys
for you. We wrote an
auth tool where you can
just put in your app
credentials and then it automatically
handles the app flow for
you and then kicks out
the key at the end.
So you can skip the
whole process of setting up
the web web end points
in order to get an
auth key. And, and where,
where do I get that
tool? And that's it, Runscope.com/oauth_tool.
And it works for both
OAuth two and author. That's
cool. Is that link somewhere
from the homepage? That seems
like a very useful thing
to know about Is actually
sadly, not even properly linked
in our diet. Okay. So
you have a secret tool.
So this is not a
tool for the community. This
is John wrote something and
hit it. Well, that was
actually the first tool we
released when we launched the
company earlier this year. One
of the things, again, we
were testing out the product,
we kept running into this
Oh, I've problem. So we
built that it is linked
from within the product. So
if you sign up and
you go to the editor
and you need a key
to make a request, then
you get the, See that's
useful. This is something I
would have liked to have
known a couple of weeks
ago. Cause man, we were
suffering. And the other thing
that we were having trouble
with was that, you know,
in the, in the, in
the soap world kind of
before a lot of the
current folks were maybe when
they were 10 years old,
like years ago there was
soap. And then there was
always this argument between, is
this a web service or
is this just POCs P
O X, plain old XML.
And everyone would say we
built a web services API
and they ended up just,
you do a get, and
I'll give you some structured
text. I used to call
it angle bracket, delimited, text.
Yeah. Yeah. You know what
I mean? Like it looks
like XML, but as soon
as we switched to posting,
though, man curl broke down.
I mean, it was just,
people were really struggling to
put together any kind of
a payload, right? Anytime like
soap, you know, it uses
request bodies to specify what
data you want to get
back. And when you should
start trying to do request
bodies in curl, you either
got a pipe in a
file or you've got to
send in a long string
that if the receiving host
is like new line sensitive,
which is actually does happen,
it's not entirely crazy that,
you know, some receivers treat
XML like texts instead of
like XML, but curl gets
really hairy when you're dealing
with request bodies. For sure.
Yeah, absolutely. And encoding single
quotes versus double quotes, new
lines. It was really a
challenge. So it was great
though in like visual studio
or eclipse, right. Where you
had like this, you know,
enter a service URL, get
a API client library, and
now you're just calling it
like any other code that
was on your system. Right.
And I think there's sort
of that set the sort
of expectations for Java and.net
developers about how web services
should work. Right. I should
get this nice rich API
that is like, feels like
the rest of my code.
And it's just a method
that I'm calling that happens
to go over the wire,
but that's really just an
implementation detail. It could be
code that is running within
my own application. As the
more popular, recent as the
more recent web services have
gotten more popular over the
last five years, the simple,
you know, so-called restful or
Jason over HTTP, a simpler
format, simpler structures where all
you really need is a
simple HB client. Sort of
that that big, heavy soap
style has really gone out
of style, but this is
allowed people, more people it's
made it more accessible for
more people to make more
web service calls. And that's
been actually compounded by the
increase in mobile app development.
The more mobile apps there
are, the more, every mobile
app that is interesting is
talking to some backend service,
typically over some form of
API. And a lot of
people actually don't call those
APIs, even though that's technically
how they're implemented. But back
in services sort of really
started to blossom the last
couple of years as we
needed to power our mobile
apps with, with, you know,
server data. The interesting thing
from that is that a
lot of people took those
mobile service backends. They're like,
well, we're already providing data
to our apps. Why don't
we just use that in
this other thing? Or why
don't we use that to
power our website now? And
so the web services have
really become the core of,
of applications now and really
the heartbeat or even the
nervous system in a way
where all the interesting conversations
are happening in over API
calls. And that's not just
a mobile service anymore. A
big companies are starting to
do more and more of
this in a, in a
less SOA way, but more
service driven. So like, you
know, so it was very
heavy, you know, the sort
of well-defined and he had
the service discovery and these
heavy protocols, and you might
have big monolith apps that
still expose web points. But
now you're getting companies that
are doing a lot of
smaller services and a lot
of little services and then
composing apps out of those
smaller services internally. Yeah. I
have found that in large
industry, in large enterprises that
I still see a lot
of Ws star and I
spent many, many years doing
that. And I think it
makes sense when you have,
you know, the complexities, but
also the security of your
Ws security. When you have
like a mainframe talking to
some backend service that, you
know, we're moving money here.
I don't think I would
want to move money even
over SSL and Jason, there's
going to be some certificates
and some serious note, you
know, some serious negotiations for
lack of another word in
the backend. But when we,
when we tried to present
web services to the public,
that's when I think SOA
fell apart, you know, as
the way it makes sense
when this internal organization wants
to talk to that one,
or I want to talk
to the fed from my
bank, but then we said,
Oh, well, that's great. I'll
just give that same API
and wisdom to John. Who's
one guy in a garage
and suddenly it's like, Whoa,
okay. I need, I need
a certain certificate. I need
a hitters and I need
. And then that's where
I think soap fell apart.
So I like the idea
of formalized difficult to version
strongly type services, way, way,
way in the back office
and lightweight dynamic languages and
dynamic payloads in the front
end. Yeah. I mean, there's
definitely a different set of
requirements for, you know, really
sensitive data. That's only moving
internally, right? Like you need
a more explicit, you know,
security contractor client, you might
use client certificates. You're not
going to probably pass an
API key in a URL.
You know, when you're talking
back and forth within your
company with sensitive financial data,
you can do money over
SSL. And Jason though, I
mean like Stripe will let
you do. I mean, PayPal,
any of these companies will
let you take payment information
and you're essentially sending either
a credit card token or
a credit card number over
SSL on Jason to them.
And they're completely PCI compliant
and there's no problems there.
They don't recommend that. They
give you lots of ways
to not do that, but
they will accept that it
is possible, right. But the
smoothest paths that, you know,
the pit of success is,
is by collecting that credit
card on the client side
and then, you know, just
sending the token back. And
so like when we, when
we take a payment, we
never see someone's credit card
number. We only see a
token. So it, but it
is possible to do that
securely over us. Right? Well,
when I was doing banking,
we did similar things. We
would never actually send the
CR the account number. When
we met with, let's say,
I'm doing a money transfer.
I would never send the
account number over the wire.
I would send an index
cause the server side knows
that the business checking is
the third account. So I
would say from account index
three to account index five,
and then the transfer is
completely relative some knowledge that
the backend found. So even
if I intercepted that on
the wire, I would only
have a vague idea of
what was happening. There's an
article that you pointed me
to at the ACM, the
association for computing machinery that
said that basically we are
all building distributed systems now,
which is funny because I
remember 15, 20 years ago
learning about like there were
distributed systems programmers, you know,
and then there's the rest
of us. And then we
blinked and everyone has to
think about queue length and
asynchrony and API APIs and
all the things. Yeah. All
these things that are, that,
that used to be really
hard, like distributed computing was
a, is a practice. When
did this happen? And this
is, I think, ties in
really big again with that,
that mobile mobile services push
that that happened. So that's
really what the tipping point
was for service consumption, I
think is when, like the
number of APIs just grew
exponentially. Once we started producing
them for mobile services and
you have these, you know,
essentially dumb clients, right. That
have maybe some logic over
the data, but for the
most part are shuttling data
back and forth through a
server in order to even
be functional that need to
understand like, you know, network
reliability or, you know, you
know, consistency of data when
you're sending it in from
all of these, you know,
sometimes disconnected clients, right. And,
you know, sync issues and
that sort of stuff. And
you know, this is something
that previously again, fell into
that distributed systems, you know,
knowledge area and regular Joe
Schmo, web developer like me.
Like I still am pretty
sure. I don't even know
what all three, you know,
terms of cap of, you
know, CAAP stand for consistency
availability and, you know, popcorn
for as long as, as
far as I'm concerned. And
yeah. So, you know, the
services have come down to
a new class of developer,
right. Or you have reached
a new class of developer
that weren't previously working on
these types of problems. Yeah.
It's like, it's become, hello.
World is no longer console
dot Rightline. It's a HTTP
get quiet. Yes. I successfully
spoke to that backend system.
Now I've got my hello
world. Now. Like the concept
has been proven is always
me talking to one or
more distributed systems. I think
though, that people put these
things together. Like I'm writing
a mobile app right now,
myself. I'm making Jason calls,
I'm pulling RSS, I'm downloading
MP3s. One of the things
that I'm not putting in
though to be Frank is
very good testing. I'm not
really thinking about reliability at
all. I mean, 99% of
the time these HTTP gets
just work. So service reliability.
I have no retries in
my code. I haven't thought
about perf monitoring or dependency
management. Right. And like, this
is pretty common. So I
worked at if this, then
that for a while, and
they have 65 API integrations,
they do like more than
anybody that I knew of
at the time. It turns
out actually after I left,
I went and talked to
other customers. They were like,
Oh yeah, we have way
more than that internally, you
know, within our big company
or whatever. But you know,
65 felt like a lot
of integrations at the time.
And so we would start
to see problems with, you
know, service, reliability, right? Like
how do we know that
Twitter is up when we
need to make a call
to it when we got
to execute somebody's recipe. And
so that would for a
long time, that was a
problem for Twitter. Twitter was
down a lot. And so
these recipes would basically fail
and people would get unexpected
results. We actually didn't even
know in a lot of
cases, how many calls were
failing? Like we didn't have
a good system for, for
monitoring that, like we were
just dumping raw logs into
like really rough graphing utilities,
but there wasn't really a
good way to know how
our application was performing based
on all the service calls
it was making. And the
total application experience is the
sum of all of these
service calls across the entire
application that makes it what
it is. The other thing
was is that once something
went wrong, we had to
write more code than we
had to actually handle the
success logic for the error
logic. We spent tons of
time writing error handling and
retry code in like, did
that call happen? You know,
15 minutes ago when it
was on a different machine.
And now that we're retrying
it in a different queue
workers picked up, do we
actually have a result for
that? That's still processing, or
if you get things like
really long network timeout. So
Twitter there used to be
this problem where once a
week at a specific time,
the Twitter API would start
responding very slowly. It wouldn't
break. So apps would still,
everything would still work. It
would just take 15 seconds
before for any given API
called a respondent. Now, when
you're used to like sub
couple hundred milliseconds, going to
15 seconds is a huge
jump and it would lock
up workers and it would
tie up tons of systems.
And like, we had to
write a lot of code
just to handle that one
specific case. And it turned
out to just like, sort
of resolve itself on Twitter's
end, but spending a lot
of time, like even trying
to figure out, like, what
was the pattern there? Or,
you know, seeing what happened
in a traditional like performance
management tool, you'd have, you
know, a tool where you
would pull up a dashboard
and be like, Oh, okay.
We can see every Friday
night at 11:00 PM, we're getting
slowness on the server on
this component within our application,
we must have a race
condition. That's time-based or something
like that. Yeah. That's a
really interesting point that you
make there. I'm going to
stop you. Cause I want
to dig a little bit
more into that. You, you
brought up the idea that,
Hey, it was really fast
before and then suddenly it
became slow. I think that
happens when you treat a
web service like a database.
If you're getting spoiled by
100 millisecond response times, you're
like, Oh yeah, it's a
database returns. Jason just happens
to be thousand miles away.
Right. And more and more
we're, we're not, we're building
apps that don't touch databases.
So like mobile apps, if
they're talking over the web
service, they may only have
a local database as a
cash, but not necessarily as
their primary data store in
our product. You know, I
work on the front end
web interface that everybody interacts
with. And I haven't touched
a database since, I don't
know, January when we first
started building the product. Everything
that I do on that
front end is completely abstracted
away via services. Now we
use three different or four
different types of databases based
on the right type of
data store for the right
type of data in different
parts of the product. But
I don't know a thing
about Postgres. And so I
don't even honestly know if
I could make a call
to PostgreSQL in Python, but
if you want to ask
me how to make an
HTB call and like properly
cash it and retry it
and do all that stuff,
I have that experience now
in that knowledge, because that's
really where, you know, the
highest level of programmers need
to spend their energy now
instead of working or dealing
with database issues and understanding,
you know, database optimization. Well,
I like the rise of,
of databases like parse or
Azure mobile services where I
can run a whole app
store, session, data, user information,
log into Facebook and do
all the kinds of things
I want to do. And
I know that there's a
database out there somewhere, but
database as a service is
cool. I mean, it's just
like, yeah, give me that
name, value pair for this
guy. You know, I don't
really care how you do
it, select star from whatever,
just get it to me.
Right. And yeah, go ahead.
I mean, those are really
great services and I think
those really illustrate the point
of like, you may build
an app now and never
ever, ever see a database
and only see HB calls.
And before you had tools
that would tell you, Hey,
we could profile our apps,
calls to our database and
see where they were slower,
see slow queries or, you
know, see problems before they
really became a problem. And
with web services, we've sort
of lost a lot of
that visibility. I think the
tools have really started lagging
behind, you know, the way
developers are actually building applications
these days, which is why
we started this company. I
mean, we wanted to build
those tools. We wanted to
basically restore visibility into people's
applications from the app developers
perspective and give them the
tools to be able to
spot problems before they became
bigger issues or became, you
know, yeah, that's really it
before they became bigger issues.
Restoring visibility is the bottom
line there. Let's talk about
that. Restoring visibility. And I
was poking around on your
blog and I found a
number of kind of little
community projects that, that, that
Runscope has made. And one
of them is, is particularly
interesting, I think is called
request bin. It's request to
be dot I N talk
to me about this. Yeah.
So request bin was a
project by a guy named
Jeff Lindsey. He goes by program
online. We worked together at
Twilio and he he's the
guy that coined the term
web hooks. Like he really
like formalized that really nebulous
idea into a slightly less
nebulous idea and gave it
a term, which I think
is part of why they
became successful as they, that
term really caught on with
web hooks and what a
web book is. It's essentially
a simple HB based push
notification. So when something happens
on a remote service, make
a request to a URL
that I've told you about
to let me know about
it. So some examples of
this, like Stripe uses this,
anytime something, a charges process,
they will post you back
to your URL and say,
Hey, this customer was charged
this amount of money. Here's
the fee we took from
it. It was successful. It
failed, you can handle different
scenarios. A Twilio uses this
for like incoming text messages
or incoming phone numbers. When
an incoming text message comes
into your number, they will
post your URL and let
you know that something has
happened so that you can
that. So after he coined
the term web hooks and
started sort of evangelizing this
idea, he made a bunch
of small utilities for debugging
them. So one of the
problems with web hooks is
that in most cases, when
you build a public web
end point, you're, you're providing
that to another, to a
user or a human. So
when you go to a
website and you fill in
a form, if there's an
error, you can visually identify
that there was some problem
with that and adjust the
data and send it again.
Well, since Webhooks are machine
to machine, there's really no
verification that the data was
received properly or correctly, or
even what the data was
when it, when it came
in. So you have to
add a lot of logging
to that. And so Jeff
came up with this idea
of basically I called originally
postponed and then later request
bin, which was a URL
that would show you every
request that was made to
it, just the raw request,
input data that was made
to that URL. So when
you're building web books and
you want to know what
the remote provider is sending
you, you can just send
them that URL. They can
make the web book requests,
and then it shows up
on that. So let me
see if I can understand
that. So paraphrasing, I go
to request band and I
say, make a bin. And
then it gives me a
little unique. It says, request
band slash and then some
number. Yep. That's my private
thing. It's almost like Pastebin
or a, just like a
GitHub just, and anything I
post there, you're going to
record for me kind of
like, it's like TiVo, you're
going to let me see
it. I can see it
was three seconds. I could
just pee. I just posted
right now, as we're talking
here, I can see my
forum post parameters. I see
my headers. So I could
go over to get hub
or Azure or anyone that
makes web hooks and force
them to post to me.
They don't care. They're just
posting to an end point,
right. And this is my
way of like injecting myself
into the process. Like, let
me see the data they're
sending me. So I know
how to handle that. When
I receive it, you'll see
sites like GitHub will let
you generate. They, they use,
they call them service hooks
on GitHub and they'll let
you generate like a fake
service hook, right. So you
can put a URL and
you can go test service
hook. And so I've used
that many times to see
what get hub was going
to send me after a
commit. And I wrote my
app and, you know, tested
against that sample data that
they sent. And then I
go switch it to, you
know, my live code and
actually commit code and they
send it and my app
breaks. Right. And it's like,
okay. So there's some difference
between like the test data.
They sent me and like
actual, real production data. So
what I really want to
be able to do is
collect real production data from
my real commits as they
happen. And not this test
test data is so that
I can make sure that
I'm looking for the right
attributes or that I'm not,
you know, parsing it on
an all value or whatever
else. And so request pen
is nice, cause you can
just drop it in and
then watch the actual traffic
that's coming through on your
web books. So usually I
find myself on the, when
I'm doing local development, messing
around with things like post
man for Chrome or using
Fiddler. And, you know, Fiddler
is a really great tool
from a, from a fat
client perspective or chubby client.
As I like to say,
you know, the, my only
problem with Fiddler with all
due respect to my friend,
Eric Lawrence, is it's ugly. Like
a Fiddler would just be
attractive. I would spend more
time there and I'm actually
spending more time in post
men just cause it's pretty,
it's very bootstrapy. But with
both of those, I struggle
to get in between the,
the two hooks, the two
for the two services that
are talking years and years
ago, there was a thing
called soap scope. That was
a proxy. And I would
just set it up as
a local proxy. And then
suddenly I would be able
to see what's going on.
How does Runscope compare? Is
it, is it a capturing
tool? Like, like Wireshark? So
a Postmates Is great product.
And so is Fiddler like
we're, we'd like both of
those things. The thing about
that's different about Runscope is
that we don't, and like
the Fiddler case, you start
have to change like system
proxy sometimes, or it does
a lot of mucking with
system networking stuff, right? It
tries to like get in
there at a really low
level and then, you know,
watch everything that happens. And
what we wanted to do
is we wanted to be
as low touch as possible,
like as minimal configuration. And
don't make you change unrelated
things in order to capture
your traffic, we wanted to
make the minimal amount of
changes and be able to,
in order to see your
traffic. So we came up
with this idea of like
a Runscope URL, where you
would take the API that
you wanted to call, and
you would basically take that
original host name and stuff
it into a sub domain.
You kind of encoded into
the sub domain. So instead
of like api.twilio.com, you'd make
the call to API dash
phileo, dashcam dash, your secret
key.runscope.net. And then what happens
is, is that when you
make that request to us,
it hits us. We can
see the request and response
data. We know what original
API you wanted to hit
because you've encoded it into
the sub domain there. And
so then we pass it
onto that original host name
that you've sent us and
then capture the response and
then send it back to
you. Okay. So rather than
me going to food.com and
posting my data, I say
Fu dashcam. Yup. Dash
dot Runscope I'm tunneling encoded
into the URL itself. So
it's like a proxy without
any of the overhead of
proxies. Like there is no
actual HTTP proxy involved. I'm
just letting you be an
intermediary. Right? I mean, the
technical thing is it is
as a reverse proxy, right?
You're hitting one host name
that gets distributed to another
one. And then it comes
back. We don't like calling
it a proxy because proxy
has a very specific term
receptor, right. And interceptor. But
this method allows us to
do a lot of interesting
things. One, it allows us
to capture SSL traffic without
any issue, right? Because your
SSL, when you do this
terminates against us, we can
decrypt it. We can see
it, we send it again,
upstream over SSL and back
down. So it's, it's SSL
end to end, but we
take that snapshot in the
middle, which is trickier with
proxies. So like if you
use like a, you know,
a traditional proxy, you know,
you have to install a
system level certificate, and it
makes it very hard to
work with SSL traffic. So
As long as I'm not
validating the certificate as being
my own, so even necessarily
will work fine. So you
validate it because It terminates
against us. So, because as
far as your client knows,
you only are ever making
the request to our servers.
And we have a valid
wildcard certificate on runscope.net. So
anything that is a sub
domain of that will is
a valid certificate. And then
on the upstream, we validate
the certificate to make sure
that it's, it's also valid.
So we're not like allowing
you to like make valid
SSL requests against invalid certificates.
You can turn that off.
If for some reason you're
using an API, like a
self sign certificate or whatever,
but by default we validate
SSL certificates upstream. So that's
one really big benefit too.
We don't need to know
anything about the API ahead
of time. Right? So some
other debugging services make you
sort of register URLs so
that you say, okay, when
I want to call it
api.github.com, you go to their
website, you type that in
and it gives you back
like a new URL. And
then you use that instead.
And so now you can
only make requests to, you
know, to URLs that you've
sort of preregistered and we
wanted to make it so
that you didn't have to
come back to the website
where you wanted to use
a new API. If you
know how to make the
special host names, the Runscope
URLs, then you can attach
your bucket key as we
call them to any sub
domain or any domain that
you've stuffed into that sub
domain, and then continue on
and your way and make
those calls. And they'll show
up in your web dashboard
without having to preregister anything.
So this might seem like
a lot of concept cause
we're talking very fast, but
I think it gets back
to the, what I think
the root issue that a
lot of programmers kind of
missed out on. I don't
think that that younger programmers
and I don't mean age.
I mean, experience if you've
been programming the last five
years or so. I think
that the assumption that, you
know, what's going on underneath
HTTP is pretty much handled.
Everyone uses curl or sniffs
headers, but I've found that
people who have been in
the industry 10, 15 years,
sometimes 20 years have taken
that for granted a lot.
And a lot of times
I'll get an email from
someone that says, you know,
I don't really know what's
going on. I posted to
this end point and that
didn't work. That's like, well,
you know, the internet is
not a black box. You
can like, I, I always
like when I'm teaching classes
to Telnet, to cnn.com. Yeah,
yeah. Like forced them to
browse the web from Telnet.
Like that's how my father
did it and that's how
I'm going to do it.
Right. And that's probably the
best way to teach somebody
how HP works. Right. Is
like open that socket connection
on port 80 and be
like, all right, I'm going
to type a version number.
And now I'm going to
say, Hey, I want to
open this URL and like
to see the text come
streaming back. I think that's
a really big light bulb
moment for a lot of
people. And I think what
you were saying about, you
know, more experienced programmers sort
of taking some of this
for granted is that, you
know, we've been really heavy
on abstraction until recently. I
think there's been sort of
a pushback on abstraction recently,
right? Like you see it
in the asp.net area, right.
Where we went to MVC,
which was less abstraction than
the web API, which was
even lower level or the
popularity of frameworks like node,
which were like, you know,
we were doing rails the
five years before that, which
was this really heavy abstraction,
like really opinionated abstraction now,
you know? No, it is
like, all right, you have
a server at return. Right.
Here's a socket, good luck
and a callback. Right. Right.
Exactly. Yeah. I think we've
seen some pushback on that.
And so trying to detach
people's mental weight of like
these abstractions and say, Hey,
you know, let's look at
this at a lower level.
And like, let's get visibility
at our lower lower level
is something that's really gotten
more popular in the, The
past couple of years. Yeah,
definitely. I think it's unapologetically
low level is what I
like to say. And I,
I liked, I liked that
aspect of, of Runscope, you
know, it has that kind
of lightweight feeling of like
a Pastebin or a adjust,
but you're, you're basically watching
these calls happen and you
can share them with friends,
give them unique URLs, comment
on them. So it's, it's
almost the kind of thing
you'd want integrated into GitHub.
If you were doing GitHub
for web services. Right. W
what we wanted to do
is we wanted to make
them as tangible as anything
else that you already are
working with. Right? So if
you are working in visual
studio and you set a
break point and you pull
up an object, you can
like navigate all the way
through that object hierarchy. And
you can see any piece
of data. You can, you
can actually change data in
flight, right? Why shouldn't we
be able to, Right. We
kind of take that for
granted when it's code that
is running on our, within
our apps and on our
own machines. And so we
wanted to bring that same
level of tangibility to HTP
requests since they are essentially
method calls that happened to
go over a wire. Yeah,
definitely. Definitely. And I'm looking
up here, it looks like
pricing. People can have 2,500
requests a month and three
buckets for free, and that
doesn't look like you want
a credit card or anything
to start with. So there's
no reason not to give
it a try. Yeah. Everyone
starts on like the full
team plan for 30 days,
no credit card that like,
lets you exercise the entire
product without restriction and make
sure to see if it's
gonna work for you. If
you don't do anything, you
automatically get downgraded to free.
Again, there's no obligations. And
if you want to cancel,
you can email me and
I'll cancel your account anytime,
but we've tried to make
it again. The barriers really
load it, like help you
get in, solve your problem
and get on your way.
And you don't use Runscope
everyday. I'm okay with that.
What we really want to
do is like help you
solve those one off problems.
Like those really nagging HB
calls that like you couldn't
solve any other way. Like
we had a customer email
and yesterday it was like,
you know, we've been spinning
for a week on this.
I'm going to, before we
found Runscope and we solved
it in three minutes. Right.
And it's like, if you
can't see it, you can't
fix it. So that's really
what we want to do
is let you see stuff
that you couldn't see before.
Last question, how would I
do this with local hosts?
What's what's my, I've got
a local website talking to
a local web service and
I want Runscope to watch.
So That is more tricky,
right? Since we can't obviously
proxy local requests, we can't
see those as well. We
do have one solution that
helps you sort of take
your local host and expose
it publicly. And then along
the way, capture all the
requests to it. So this
is another Jeff Lindsay program project
that you started out a
couple of years ago, he
created something called local tunnel,
which essentially temporarily opens up
your local host on a
public URL and then lets
you make requests to it
externally. So it does all
the tunneling and reverse proxy
to make that possible through
any firewall. This has become
sort of a cottage industry.
Actually there's a bunch of
them. One really good. One
is called N grok and
G R O k.com, which
was made by another former
Twilio engineer, which is essentially
the same thing. It's introspective
local tunnels. We've built this
into the product as well.
So we have, we call
ours passageway. And what it
does is it, you go
into the command line and
you say open up port,
you know, 8,000 and then
it gives you a URL.
Now, every request you make
that URL is forwarded to
your local machine, but is
actually captured along the way.
So this is this solves
part of the local host
problem that doesn't solve for
like I'm running the, an
app in a simulator and
I'm testing my local service.
You know, I don't want
to see what's happening on
my machine. You would have
to go out on the
public internet at some point
for us to be able
to see it down the
road. We'll we'll, we'll address
this problem more sufficiently and
come up with ways so
that you can see your
local traffic in Runscope without
having to go over the
public internet. But that's still
a little ways out. Right,
right, right. I mean, I
could hear people and I
guess it's called passageway is
what the word for this
is. I could, I could
hear people who are into
security saying, Oh my goodness
types. And suddenly my engineer
has used perfectly public normal
things like Nat and you
know, appropriate technologies to completely
bypass the security that my
company has put in. Why
couldn't you have a little
tiny local proxy that just
watches and then kind of
sideways throws up to run
scope for an inspection. So
you're just throwing the traffic
up without doing any fancy
proxy. That is a really
great idea. You like that?
Can you get that written
by the end of the
day? Yeah. End of the
day. Probably not, but I
think that's the, you know,
the exact kind of model
that we're looking at for
the future is, you know,
like let us see. Not
only just like local traffic,
but like intranet traffic, for
lack of a better word.
Like let us see our
internal traffic that never even
goes out over the public
internet. Let us get at
the same level of visibility
on that type of stuff
too. So we're very interested
in pursuing that in the
future. Very cool. All right.
Well thanks so much, John
Shyanne for chatting with me
today. Yeah. Thanks for having
me, Scott. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.